2022-02-06
Mustella Gathering

1. Introductions
2. Demo of Ideal Adventure - Rhys
  * Serverless tech demo of square integration with other services
  * Password-less login
  * Persistent connection to square after authorization
  * Currently working on database management
  * Is this intended for general order management? No, intended initially as a refinement of Chris's workflow, not yet a general-purpose order management site.
  * Keven also was addressing the same workflow using a different serverless approach.
3. Order management
  * Square has limitations that make real sales difficult.
  * Producing a product does not consume multiple components according to a BOM. Ingredients must be deducted manually.
  * Products cannot have more than one price (wholesale vs retail)
  * Multiple products can't pull from the same inventory (two variants of the same item)
  * Square does not support bundles which might be sold at a discount.
  * Odoo has been tried by Melissa and to accommodate their business needs would be very expensive
  * Alternatives in other farms look like manual spreadsheets or hand-written lists
4. FarmOS
  * Record keeping for farm production
  * Not intended for sales and inventory tracking
  * Interested in better integration with sales and other standard services, like Square.
5. Useful features from Melissa:
  * Capturing time studies - data gathering and visibility
  * Duration of manufacturing steps - combining time tracking and standard operating procedure
  * Dashboard for current status of time for different tasks, inventory, and cost of goods sold in real-time
  * Goal is making data-driven decision-making easier
6. Lowering the barrier to gathering user feedback -- Questionnaire:
  * What tools are you currently using?
  * What are you most frustrated with in your current system?
  * User stories discovery and the state of the art is a strong next step.
7. Rotating roles:
  * Convener - David will be convener and facilitator for next Mustella cycle
  * Facilitator
  * Stenographer
  * Melissa offers to facilitate conversation to formulate the questionnaire: Jamie and Janice will join that effort.


Next Mustella hangout next March, Sunday the 6th.
