---
date: 2022-03-06
subject: March roundtable
facilitator: David
notes:
  - Jamie
attendees: 
  - Mohammed
  - Nate
  - Rhys
  - Jen
  - Jamie
  - Janice
  - David
  - Evan
---

# March roundtable

## Survey
https://airtable.com/shra56uPWkfhccc4e

- 
- Nate presents the survey
- may be good to present it at state of small farming


## Ideal Adventure
https://github.com/somethingelse-skywoman/ideal-adventure

- Rhys
  - draw out the potential of the site
  - got db together
  - Square's working, tokens etc
  - Skeleton of the site
  - But what's the site going to do?
- David
  - Who is the user this is for?
- Rhys
  - right now the features are
  - lots of 3rd party services, but all free tiers
  - Planet Scale for databases (managed, scaleable MySQL)
  - waiting on more survey feedback to decide what to do
  - maybe have a systems diagram to move forward
- David
  - are there ways that pod members can support you (Rhys)?
- Rhys
  - a little worried about going to far w/o input, eg, maybe people don't like JS, maybe don't like SQL, etc
- Mohammed
  - are we doing a site, are we doing a platform, a protocol, etc?
  - are we still trying to tackle that first problem that Chris posed?
- Rhys
  - still open to seeing where this can go
- Janice
  - from my understanding Chris had a very concrete problem
  - sounds like Ideal Adventure could do many things
  - Chris's use case is "ready to go"
  - can someone explain Chris's use case again?
- David
  - pull orders from square
  - generating a picklist to pull those orders out of inventory
  - send that picklist off to Fleet service
  - we've also got a chicken-n-egg problem though
- Mohammed
  - is it worth discussing the architecture we're trying to build looks like?
- David
  - seems as though we don't know enough to have a good perspective on arch
- Evan
  - Janice and I were talking, and if you're building something go for it
  - also good to swap stories in terms of use cases
  - could probably resolve some of this stuff with a Zapier solution
  - looking for drama in things
  - how many web apps can we build for what's not a huge market?
  - context around end-user is important
  - Janice's experience w/ CPG could be really helpful to understand people who are a certain size
- Rhys
  - is there a way to help people connect locally, and can we give them reason to?
  - there are system changes that will be required for most of this software to work
 - Evan
  - Onboarding and data migration has to be smooth and not painful to make a transition. Data manipulation for a farmer is waste, not generating revenue, so it needs to be small in cost.
  - The drama is found more in setting accurate expectations, including advice on total addressable market and profit margin. Tech is not the silver bullet.
- Nate
  - Understanding business model is the core point of failure and key to success.
  - Data can be configured to fit any business, so data models aren't the constraint. 
- Evan
  - Tech has the concept of virtualization that can spin up new instances with low cost. Food doesn't work that way, there is a physicality to scale that carries significant cost.
- Nate
  - Even large operations sometimes run on very rudimentary methods for their process management. These rarely generate digital data so are hard to automate but are robust and simple and fast. 
  - One operation just wrote the date on the side of the oil filter when it was installed. No digital data, easy and quick, and robust against turnover and operator changes.
  - Pain points kill any transition to digital tools
- Evan
  - Small and mid-scale opeerations do not need huge gains to profit to make using a platform worthwhile. $20k additional sales or profit is a significant percentage.
  - Predictive data could be really powerful, since few operations are currently doing that work.
- Nate
  - A statement of intent and values seems necessary as a filter for which projects we prioritize and focus on as the mustella pod. 
- Janice
  - Lots of operators want to get up and running, but don't have as clear of a business plan. Deeper interviews with operators up and running may be more valuable. 
- Evan
  - New entrants are often pursuing diversity of operation or aspirational systems which have high initial costs and growth slopes. 
  - Lots of ambitious people invest in a farm project that isn't well thought through from a growth slope standpoint. 
  - Devepopment of higher-level data products could be more juicy than solving small individual frictions for small operators. 
  - Find the solution that has potential to scale well if possible.
- Nate
  - How can we help people convince those around them to use their farm products rather than large centralized orgs. 
  - How do we avoid the startup/VC race to the bottom, losing money just to scale and attract customers?
- Evan
  - Thinking like a platform/distributer is different than thinking like a CSA in terms of efficiency and scalability. 
  - Organic growth, where each node is viable separately can build resiliancy at every point of system growth
  - Multiple nodes could tap into dev resources to swarm critical issues and keep each one running with high uptime
  - Services for in-kind mutual aid?
- Jen
  - There is a broad move away from higherarchical data to search-based or graph-based databases that don't use fixed folder structures. 

## Next Steps
* Write a statement of values and focus for Mustella
  * Build resiliance
  * Invest in systems that can scale and improve operators effectiveness
  * Lower barriers to access on both customer and producer standpoints
* Quality check for the survey - prepare for distribution
  * Conduct these as facilitated interviews?
* Ideal-Adventure: System diagram and user stories
  * MOre discussion on the channel about thoughts and considerations for development
